---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/3-world/regions/veyruem-empire/"}
---

The Veyrüm Empire spans an entire continent which they have conquered. The actual city state of [[3-World/Factions/Auctus\|Auctus]], is situated to the west of the continent and is resplendent with the most industrious architecture in the world.

Long ago, The old city of Auctus was continually attacked by flooding due to it's location below sea level. The value of their mines was deemed to great so, rather than move and let someone else have access, they created a new city situated high above the land via stone marvels of engineering and magic. This causes the city to resemble a city on massive columns earning it the nickname, The City of Spires. Serendipitously, when the massive earthquake caused The Mother of Tempests, Auctus was the only kingdom saved of any damage. This led to the belief that they were chosen people. That their mages were something special. Thus began their path to easily conquer what was left of the continent either by force, or by offering to use their magics to create barriers for their vassal states. Over the years this fascist ideology grew until 50 years ago they found a tablet they believe proved this divinely. Leading to the church of the Rüm Ingenium. The "True" Ingenium. Those they conquered swore fealty to this new religion and to the Auctisian people as the race from the holy land of the Rüm Ingenium religion. This new theocratic empire was dubbed the Veyrüm Empire by the new pope of the Rüm Ingenium.